Okay, in this video we are gonna go
fully reactive with Thymeleaf.
And, what we wanna do is, we've kind of stopped
things in the reactive chain right at the controller
and I've got the IndexController up
and I've made one small tweak here.
So you can see I just click down the changes there
and we were doing a collectList and block
and that was causing that reactive type
to return back to Thymeleaf,
basically a List of the recipes.
And in this case, we wanna return back that Flux.
Because if you remember, if I come here,
we are turning back Flux of recipes to Thymeleaf
or out of that service.
Now we wanna return that directly to Thymeleaf
so that reactive type gets pushed up the chain
into the Thymeleaf templating engine.
Now we are doing that and I do have it running here.
And let's come over here and take a look at Chrome.
I am gonna do a refresh and for some reason
Google Chrome thinks this is an Italian, or at least it did.
It keeps changing it's mind on me.
And we can see, this is the index page
and now it's being rendered with that reactive type.
And we can come in and actually prove this
so let's come in and stop this.
Stop you.
And I am gonna put a debug breakpoint here.
Let's go ahead and re-run him
but bring him up in the debugger.
We are gonna take a look at that.
While, I am here, and some old debuggers
we don't need that.
Don't need you anymore.
And now we are up there and we won't hit
that until we refresh.
So refresh this page that triggers the breakpoint.
Now we can see the model here and we come down here
and right here we have our recipes set on the model
and we can see that is a Flux.
So that Flux hasn't been triggered yet
so it's just a pointer to that data coming out of Mongo.
So once the Thymeleaf template picks that up
and renders that, that's when that Flux
is gonna get triggered to stream the data
out of Mongo into the Thymeleaf template.
I am gonna go ahead and let that play now.
Now one other thing I that wanted to do is
let me bring up the IndexControllerTest
and tried number of different things here.
Effectively now that we are running on WebFlux
we broke the old MVC stuff so the mockMvc
isn't gonna work because that is tied to Servlet API.
Now we do get a new webTestClient that we can utilize.
And right now, you can see here, I tried to
number different things setting it up
and I did not have any luck.
I actually spent several hours working on this,
trying to get this test going,
so let me show you what's happening right now.
I'll go ahead and run this test.
And, coming up here, we are getting a 500 error
and if I scroll all the way to the top
we are not rendering that view 'index'
and that's why I was coming in here trying to manually
set up Thymeleaf, setting up template resolver,
the FluxTemplateEngine, the Thymeleaf.
What's happening is when Spring Boot runs
in a test mode, it brings up a slice of the configuration
and at this time it seems like the team has not completed
development around this.
So, the WebTestClient works great for
returning back JSON and
we are gonna see that very soon in the course
but right now, it's not, I don't think it's out of the oven
so to speak for doing testing with Thymeleaf.
And, what are we on,
I think we're just on M3 if I remember right.
Yeah, so we are still on M3 so I am recording this video
in August of 2017
and Spring Boot 2 has not gone GA yet.
So, that is expected probably towards the end of this year.
So the Spring Boot 2 stuff is still catching up.
The WebTest stuff is still very new
and I expect they are gonna include
support for Thymeleaf in the very near future
but it looks like it's just not there yet.
So, I am going to re-record this video.
So, for the time being our test over our controllers
are gonna be a little limited.
But once the Spring Boot community does catch up,
I am gonna go back and re-record this video
with the new features that will support Thymeleaf
but, at this point in time, not having any luck
with supporting that.
I tried a number of different ways, did not have any luck
so I am just gonna put pause on that
and we will come back and bring up our testing
for the controllers up to speed
because we definitely want to have our test coverage there.
But again, like I said, this is still fairly new stuff
and this Spring Boot, so Spring 5 is going GA next month
and Spring Boot is gonna be catching up
so there is still some configuration, auto configuration
that needs to be done within Spring Boot.
I did give it a college try and did not get through it
but we will get there soon.
And then just a quick note on the source code,
I am not gonna check the stuff into source control
so I am gonna get this cleaned up
and just leave the test ignored
with the Mock MVC stuff in there
and we will be coming back to visit this.
I'll probably just completely re-record this video
with a new test of at some point in the future.